---
layout: default
---

This is my own personal website that will show a few interesting projects and codes that I have worked on throughout my Ph.D. and beyond.

# About me {#about}

I am a researcher who has excelled as a programmer, making significant contributions to the field of computational chemistry, where I developed advanced coding solutions that further expand our understanding of the origins of spectroscopic effects and the involvement of spin-orbit and vibronic effects. My works are highlighted in my thesis, _Spin Orbit Coupling and Vibronic Effects on Spectroscopic Properties of Metal Complexes_ (can find it <a href="https://www.proquest.com/openview/ad02ec9c0bae08b3d2dfcb917ef49ce9/1?pq-origsite=gscholar&cbl=18750&diss=y" target="_blank">here</a>).

I worked as a Graduate Research Assistant as a Ph.D. candidate at the University at Buffalo - SUNY where I analyzed data generated by quantum chemistry codes running in a high-performance cluster (HPC).

[Helpful functions in Python](./python-funcs.html)

[A look at numerical differentiation with finite difference approaches](./fd-method.html)

<a href="jupyter-html/james_bond_analysis.html" target="_blank">A fun little analysis of the movies in the James Bond franchise</a>

# Education

**University at Buffalo, The State University of New York**

Doctor of Philosophy in Chemistry (April 2023)

---

**University at Buffalo, The State University of New York**

<p>Bachelor of Science in Physics (June 2018)<br> Bachelor of Arts in Chemistry (June 2018)</p>

# Coding projects

1. <a href="https://github.com/herbertludowieg/vibrav" target="_blank">VibrAv</a> (<a href="https://herbertludowieg.github.io/vibrav" target="_blank">docs</a>): A Python library for computational chemists who are trying to compute vibronic properties vi a central finite difference approach. There are three primary modules to compute the Zero-Point Vibrational Corrections (ZPVC), Vibrational Raman Optical Activity (VROA), and Vibronic Coupling (VC). The ZPVC module has been adapted to approximate first and second derivatives with two, four, six, or eight points, increasing the accuracy of the approximated derivatives significantly. The results of this library have been shown in five scientific publications in prestigious journals.

# Publications (<a href="https://scholar.google.com/citations?authuser=1&user=4pxDwJIAAAAJ" target="_blank">Google Scholar</a>)

1. **Ludowieg, H D**; Srebro-Hooper, M; Crassous, J; Autschbach, J. Optical Activity of Spin-Forbidden Electronic Transitions in Metal Complexes from Time-Dependent Density Functional Theory with Spin-Orbit Coupling. _Chemistry Open_ **2022**, _11_, e202200020. DOI:  <a href="https://doi.org/10.1002/open.202200020" target="_blank">10.1002/open.202200020</a>
2. Morgante, P; **Ludowieg, H D**; Autschbach, J. Comparative Study of Vibrational Raman Optical Activity with Different Time-Dependent Density Functional Approximations: The VROA36 Database. _J. Phys. Chem. A_ **2022**, _126_ (19), 2909-2927. DOI: <a href="https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpca.2c00951" target="_blank">10.1021/acs.jpca.2c00951</a>
3. Atzori, M; **Ludowieg, H D**; et. al. Validation of microscopic magnetochiral dichroism theory. _Science Advances_ **2021**, _7_ (17), eabg2859. DOI: <a href="https://doi.org/10.1126/sciadv.abg2859" target="_blank">10.1126/sciadv.abg2859</a>
4. Ganguly, G; **Ludowieg, H D**; Autschbach, J. Ab Initio Study of Vibronic and Magnetic 5f-to-5f and Dipole-Allowed 5f-to-6d and Charge-Transfer Transitions in [UX<sub>6</sub>]<sup>n−</sup> (X = Cl, Br; n = 1, 2). _J. Chem. Theory Comput._ **2020**, _16_ (8), 5189–5202. DOI: <a href="https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jctc.0c00386" target="_blank">10.1021/acs.jctc.0c00386</a>
5. Abella, L; **Ludowieg, H D**; Autschbach, J. Theoretical study of the Raman optical activity spectra of [M(en)<sub>3</sub>]<sup>3+</sup> with M = Co, Rh. _Chirality_ **2020**, _32_, 741–752. DOI: <a href="https://doi.org/10.1002/chir.23194" target="_blank">10.1002/chir.23194</a>

# Hobbies

1. Gaming
2. Playing music
3. Puzzles
4. Hiking
5. Rock Climbing
6. RC planes
